---
layout: about
title: About Me
permalink: /about/
---

I am an undergraduate economics theory and computer science student at New York
University. I was born here in New York and lived in Connecticut through middle
school. In the summer of 2008 my family and I moved across the US to the
Seattle area.

Seattle continues to be a huge adventure for the family - hiking, biking,
Seattle sports teams, great music, and more. Moving there also came at the
perfect time for my interest in tech; I visited the Microsoft campus my
freshman year, cofounded my school's robotics club senior year, and competed in
in the 3lb Beetle weight division at RoboGames (anyone remember
[BattleBots?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oo3zWxO3yYs))

I love economics and computer science.
[Here's why.]({% post_url 2014-7-31-why-technology-and-liberal-arts %})

I am currently a **Junior Research Scientist** with NYU's Systems group in the
Computer Science department working on Project Spartan, a distributed version
of the scientific computing library NumPy. Project Spartan is [open source on
GitHub!](https://github.com/spartan-array/spartan/)

Earlier this year, I was a **Data Analyst Intern** at Kinetic Social, a social
data marketing company. There I prototyped interactive data visualizations and
worked on the user interface for an automated social media optimization tool.

At school, I am an **Executive Board Member** of
[Tech@NYU](http://www.techatnyu.org/), the largest student tech organization in
NYC. I lead the HackNights initiative, a weekly meetup for programmers,
designers, researchers, and entrepreneurs from universities in the New York
City area. [Learn more about HackNights
here.](http://www.techatnyu.org/#build-and-socialize)

You can also find me playing the trumpet in [NYU's Music Education Jazz
Ensemble.](https://www.facebook.com/pages/NYU-Music-Education-Jazz-Ensemble/149497651746377)
When I'm not in the library, in class, or at a school event, I'm probably
biking around lower Manhattan.

